Welcome back.
We learned how we can do function borrowing with apply and call and we also learn how we can use mind
to do the same thing and also call a function later on when we want to with a certain value to the this
keyword.
But there's one other useful trick that you can use with buying.
And it's called function currying.
Something that we're going to learn a lot more about in our functional programming section of the course.
But you can do something interesting with the bind method let's say I had a function and this function
was called multiply and it simply multiplies two numbers so we just return a times be nice and simple.
Now currying refers to well only partially giving a function a parameter.
Now why would this be useful.
Why would multiply to be more useful than just completing the entire parameter list.
Well because we can do something like this we can have let's say a new variable multiply by two
and this is going to use the multiply function.
And I'm going to use bind method here.
That's going to bind to this.
And what is this.
Well it's the window object.
We don't really care because what we care about is giving the parameter to the multiply.
So this is just an unintended consequence of using but we don't really care.
So we're just going to leave it at this the window object.
But now if I give it to here and I hit enter Well now I can run console dot log multiply by two and
if I run this well it's a function it's returning for us a function that we can use later on but it
already has one of the parameters in it so that if I run multiply by two let's say multiply by two.
Number four which will be the second parameter and I run this I get eight.
How cool is that.
I created a new function called multiply by 2 that multiplies anything by 2 by giving it the first parameter
to be 2 so that I can keep doing this right.
I can create a another function let's say multiply by 10 and this gets a parameter of 10 so that when
I multiply by 10 I get 40.
How cool is that.
This is something that we're going to learn a little bit more when we get into currying videos.
But I was able to reuse a piece of code give it a partial parameter and create these functions that
are extensible that are more specific such as multiply by two or multiply by 10.
I hope this gets you as excited as it gets me.
I think it's really really cool and an interesting concept of bind.
All right.
I want to know a bit of a tangent here but I'll see you for some exercises in the next video.